Still a work in progress.
Some features are missing

**Missing functionalities**: PostgreSQL and certbot

## install_nextcloud

This role installs _an all in one_ nextcloud instance. Database, web services will be on the same host.

Strenghtened permissions and ownership following Nextcloud recommandations.

### Requirements

Ansible 2.0

### Role Variables

Role's variables (and their default value):
#### Main configuration

```YAML
nextcloud_version: 10.0.0
```
The nextcloud version you want to install.
```YAML
nextcloud_trusted_domain: {{ ansible_default_ipv4.address }} 
```
The first domain you will use to access the nextcloud server.
```YAML
nextcloud_websrv: "apache"
```
The http server used by nextcloud. Available values are: **apache** or **nginx**.
```YAML
nextcloud_webroot: "/opt/nextcloud"
```
The nextcloud root directory.

**Warning: only the _parent_ directory must exist prior to installation.**

E.G.: for the default : only **/opt** must exist on the host.
```YAML
nextcloud_data_dir: "{{ nextcloud_webroot }}/data"
```
The nextcloud data directory. This directory will contain all the nextcloud files. Choose wisely.
```YAML
nextcloud_admin_name: "admin"
```
Define the nextcloud admin's login.
```YAML
nextcloud_admin_pwd: "secret"
```
Define the admin's password.

**Commented by default**

If not defined by the user, a ramdom password will be generated.
```YAML
nextcloud_dl_url: "https://download.nextcloud.com/server/releases" # 
```
The nextcloud repository URL where to download the archive.
#### Database configuration
```YAML
nextcloud_db_backend: "mysql"
```
Database backend used by nextcloud.

Supported values are: 
- mysql
- mariadb
- PostgreSQL

```YAML
nextcloud_db_name: "nextcloud"
```
The nextcloud instance's database name.
```YAML
nextcloud_db_admin: "ncadmin"
```
The nextcloud instance's database user's login
```YAML
nextcloud_db_pwd: "secret"
```
The nextcloud instance's database user's password.

**Commented by default.**

If not defined by the user, a ramdom password will be generated.

#### TLS configuration
```YAML
nextcloud_tls_enforce: true
```
Force http to https.
```YAML
nextcloud_tls_cert_method: "self-signed"
```
Defined various method for retrieving a TLS certificate.
- **self-signed**: generate _a one year_ self-signed certificate for the trusted domain on the remote host and store it in _/etc/ssl_.
- **certbot**: Use _cerbot/letsencrypt_ to provide a signed certificate for the trusted domain.
- **signed**: copy provided signed certificate for the trusted domain to the remote host or in /etc/ssl by default.
  Uses:
```YAML
  nextcloud_tls_src_cert: /local/path/to/cert
  # ^local path to the certificate's key. mandatory
  nextcloud_tls_src_cert_key: /local/path/to/cert/key
  # ^local path to the certificate. mandatory
  nextcloud_tls_cert: "/etc/ssl/{{ nextcloud_trusted_domain }}.crt"
  # ^remote absolute path to the certificate's key. optional
  nextcloud_tls_cert_key: "/etc/ssl/{{ nextcloud_trusted_domain }}.key"
  # ^remote absolute path to the certificate. optional
```
- **installed**: if the certificate for the trusted domain is already on the remote host, specify its location.
  Uses:
```YAML
  nextcloud_tls_cert: /path/to/cert
  # ^remote absolute path to the certificate's key. mandatory
  nextcloud_tls_cert_key: /path/to/cert/key
  # ^remote absolute path to the certificate. mandatory
```

#### System configuration
```YAML
websrv_user: "www-data"
```
system user for the http server
```YAML
websrv_group: "www-data"
```
system group for the http server
```YAML
mysql_root_pwd: "secret"
```
root password for the mysql server

**Commented by default**

If not defined by the user, and mysql/mariadb is used as database, a ramdom password will be generated.

#### Generated password
If a password is generated by the role, it creates a hidden file in /root/ with the generated password

The file's name look_like this : ".{{ nextcloud_trusted_domain }}-{{ pwd type }}.pwd"

### Dependencies

none

### Example Playbook
#### Case 1: testing nextcloud
Running the playbook with all variable by default:

```YAML
---
- hosts: server
  roles:
   - role: install_nextcloud
```

- This will install a nextcloud instance in /opt/nextcloud using apache2 and mysql.
- it will be available in https only at the host's default ip (defined by ansible).
- Generated passwords are stored in /root/ as hidden files.


#### Case 2
- An Ansible master want to install a new nextcloud instance at _cloud.example.tld_ on an existing server with already some services running like mysql and nginx.

- He also have installed a valid certificate for the trusted domain in /etc/nginx/certs/

- He can run the role with the following variables to install nextcloud accordingly to its server existing configuration.

```YAML
---
- hosts: server
  roles:
   - role: install_nextcloud
     nextcloud_trusted_domain: "cloud.example.tld"
     nextcloud_websrv: "nginx"
     nextcloud_admin_pwd: "secret007"
     nextcloud_webroot: "/var/www/nextcloud/"
     nextcloud_data_dir: "/var/ncdata"
     nextcloud_db_pwd: "secretagency"
     nextcloud_tls_cert_method: "installed"
     nextcloud_tls_cert: "/etc/nginx/certs/nextcloud.crt"
     nextcloud_tls_cert_key: "/etc/nginx/certs/nextcloud.key"
     mysql_root_pwd: "42h2g2"
```

License
-------

BSD
